Welcome to your Dreamhack installation!

This Dreamhack service is provided by Sophie (<sophie@hack.dreamwidth.net>)
and is available for general use. Preference will be given to those actively
doing development work, but please don't let the word 'development' stop you;
we have a healthy, nurturing community of people who are more than willing to
give their time in order to help out newcomers. (See the 'Community' section
below for more details.)

Getting Started
===============

rahaeli has written a superb wiki page detailing how to get started with your
Dreamhack at the following address:
  http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dreamhack_Getting_Started

It covers most of the common things you'll need to do to get started. If you
have an issue, check this page first.

Connecting
==========

You will need an SSH client to connect to your Dreamhack. You'll be using SSH
to work with your Dreamhack for most things, including creating patches, so
it's worth getting to know how to use it.

  * Windows users can use PuTTY, from this URL:
      http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

    You'll want to fill in the hostname as "hack.dreamwidth.net", then just
    click Connect. (Alternatively, save it as a stored session for later.)

  * Linux and Mac OS X users will generally already have OpenSSH, which will
    allow you to connect. You can do this from the terminal; type the following
    command (replacing  'dh-username' with your actual username):
      ssh dh-username@hack.dreamwidth.net

To connect, use the username/password combination from your initial email. (If
you're reading this from the email itself, these details are above.)

The first time you connect, your client will tell you that it doesn't have the
host key in its cache. Check to make sure that the key fingerprint it lists is
the same as below, and if so, feel free to continue. (Generally this will
involve clicking or typing "Yes" at the prompt.) If the host key doesn't match,
please contact Sophie at <sophie@hack.dreamwidth.net>.

  * Host key (RSA): ed:e2:9d:86:4b:8e:a5:a9:ed:12:fc:ed:16:73:bd:c7

When you log in for the first time, you will be reminded to create the
password for the 'system' user. This can be done by running the following
command:
    $LJHOME/bin/upgrading/make_system.pl

It is also recommended that on login you change your password to something
more easily memorable by using the "passwd" command.

Maintenance
===========

The Dreamhack installation that is installed is up-to-date at the time of
setup, but if you wish to keep it up-to-date you will need to do so yourself.
Instructions on doing so can be found at:
  http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dev_Maintenance

Although your Dreamhack is ready to run, you may be interested in editing
the $LJHOME/etc/config-local.pl file in order to further customize the options
available.

You can start and stop your Apache instance using the commands "start-apache"
and "stop-apache". Although the initial setup will give you a working Apache
instance, it will not bring it up automatically, so you will need to use
"start-apache" to do so. (In the past, Apache instances were automatically
brought up; this has changed due to memory considerations.)

Please note that if the host machine is rebooted, Dreamhack installations on
the server will not be brought back up automatically. In addition, if you do
not foresee using your Dreamhack for a period of time, please bring it down
with the "stop-apache" command.

Resources
=========

If you're looking for a guide on what to do next, there are a number of
resources on our wiki that you might find useful:

  * http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Beginning_dev_checklist
      This is an overview for beginning developers that starts at the *very*
      beginning, which may be useful to some people.

  * http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Development
      An overview of development topics.

  * http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dev_Getting_Started
      An overview of getting started.

  * http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Bugzilla
      An overview of the Bugzilla ticket system, including links to useful
      searches.

  * http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dev_Version_Control
      Some notes on working with the version control systems in use for
      Dreamwidth code.

Other articles can be found at this URL:
  http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Category:Development

Submitting Patches
==================

The process of submitting patches can be found on the wiki:
  http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dev_Patches#Creating_Patches

Note that you will need a Contributor Licensing Agreement (CLA) on file with
Dreamwidth Studios, LLC before your patches can be accepted into the codebase.
More information on CLAs can be found on the wiki:
  http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Contributor_Licensing_Agreement

Community
=========

There is a thriving community of Dreamwidth pioneers, including coders,
designers, testers, and others; most of us live on IRC at irc.freenode.net,
on the #dreamwidth channel. If you have a query or concern, you can often get
an answer in real-time here. (If you're not sure how to join us, take a look
at http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/IRC_help .)

There is also a sister channel, #dreamwidth-dev, specifically for developers.
You'll never be derided for anything in either channel, so don't worry that
you might ask a stupid question; there are no stupid questions. :)

We also have two development communities on Dreamwidth:
  * http://dw-dev.dreamwidth.org/profile
      This community is for general discussion on Dreamwidth development.

  * http://dw-dev-training.dreamwidth.org/profile
      This community is focused more on helpful tips on working with Dreamwidth
      code, or even coding in general. You'll probably find something here even
      if you're an experienced coder, so do take a look.

You can find me, Sophie, on all four of these places. My Dreamwidth username
is "sophie", and my IRC nickname is "Sophira".

Please feel free to join us!

Dreamhack Structure
===================

The following is an explanation of the files/directories you will find in your
home directory:

  * apache/
      This directory contains your Apache instance configuration and log files.
      You are free to modify your Apache configuration (in apache/conf/httpd.conf)
      as necessary. However, please note the following:

      * Your Apache config is configured to listen on 127.0.0.1 on a high port
        (>8080). *This is correct*, so please do not change it; Web requests
        are routed through a perlbal installation which allows you to use port
        80 as normal.
      * Please do not change the min/max* settings without good reason. If you
        feel they could be set to better values, let me know. :)

  * bin/
      This directory is the first entry in your PATH environment variable, and
      contains the following scripts:

        * cvsreport.pl - this is a symlink to the real cvsreport.pl, for ease
                         of use.
        * start-apache - starts your Apache instance.
        * stop-apache  - stops your Apache instance.
        * tocvs.real   - this isn't directly executable - instead, it's
                         aliased in your ~/.bashrc and sourced. Use 'tocvs'
                         to switch between your /cvs and live directories
                         easily.

      If you need more scripts in your PATH, this is the place to add them. A
      selection of scripts, as well as full documentation on 'tocvs', can be
      found at:
        http://wiki.dwscoalition.org/notes/Dev_Maintenance#Scripting

  * dw/
      This is where your Dreamhack installation lives, and is the target of the
      LJHOME environment variable - so this is where you'll be spending most of
      your time. ;)

  * crontab-import
      This file contains a sample crontab which you may import if you need to.
      Instructions on doing so are contained in the file.

Epilogue
========

Hopefully, this should be all the information you need to get started. Should
you need any more information, please feel free to contact me at
<sophie@hack.dreamwidth.net>, or find me on #dreamwidth IRC as "Sophira".

 - Sophie.
